[Music]
alright enough with the creepy music I
just thought it was appropriate given
what came out of the package this is
something actually quite special from a
small brand called oz Iran and it's
unlike anything I've used for gaming so
far both and the good and a bad way what
started out as a unique showcase of DIY
talent back in 2017 has now evolved in
something much more market friendly when
we talk about the small niche of users
who like to macro everything onto their
keyboards and also beyond so gamepads
and now with these gaming keypads and
the a Zirin product is about that too
but it's also about experimentation
customization on the whole new level
with a few really interesting quirks so
let me tell you about my experience
using this thing in-game which is both
extremely frustrating and fantastic at
the same time right after this power up
your PC with be quite straight power
Levin platinum series featuring 80 plus
platinum efficiency a fully modular
design high quality Japanese capacitors
and a styling Lynx fan that's optimized
for air flow and silence choose be quiet
and your components will thank you
alright so let's start from the
beginning as Iran gets huge props for
trying to cater to all gamers this means
you get to choose left or right-handed
option choosing the size of the gamepad
based on your hand size with a handy
printout then choosing the right wrist
rest either a flat or curved I get both
but prefer the curved one because for my
hand size it just gives me much better
ergonomics the flat one is a bit too
flat and finally you choose the color
combination to fit your setup that
doesn't cost extra so there is no bling
no RGB illumination the color you choose
is what sets it apart in terms of
peripherals and design and I don't mind
that to finally have a gaming peripheral
without RGB nice the downside here is
wait time as it may take up to 25 days
for this thing to be produced
however given this whole thing is 3d
printed I think the price
pretty fair given this thing is the most
unique gaming keypad on the market right
now so let's take a closer look I don't
know how you guys feel about this but I
kind of like the rough texture on the
body and on the nail triggers it doesn't
feel as polished as like some
mass-produced accessories but it is one
of the unique quirks and there is no
gloss the plastic frame feels good the
extensions on the fingers have some
density to them and when adjusting the
button towers they get into position
very well that you can fully secure with
this cute screwdriver it's well grounded
- with rubber pads at the bottom and the
way to the whole thing here is next to
my ducky one too many for size reference
so if you're looking to save on desk
space this should satisfy
now the first hiccup I encountered with
this thing when plugging it in is that
my computer did not actually recognize
it and that is it because I plugged it
into a USB 3 port and I had to plug in
to USB 2 port update the firmware and
install the drivers for it to finally
work on a USB 3 port so something to
keep in mind but now let's get to the
fun part the 26 custom buttons the 5 way
directional pad and the full analog
joystick so everything is customizable
with 2 onboard profiles that you can
switch on the fly with this button on
the side or endless profiles through the
software and more on that later the
switches are not your traditional
keyboard switches though instead they're
using micro switches the same type used
in mice very tactile short travel
distance easy to press and fairly quiet
with a few unconventional locations on
the button towers giving you 6 buttons
for the point finger 5 for the middle
and 4 for the rest and then the bottom
here you can loosen them up adjust the
actual distance of each finger tower
based on your hand size and based on
your finger length which is actually
perfect you can literally customize this
to fall into your hand when you put it
down without anything feeling weird or
out of place and for that as iran gets
another huge prop and finally here what
the switches sound like
actually a very close sound profile to
the G 305 now the button towers for your
point and middle fingers are slightly
larger giving you extra buttons for the
top over here and they are a little bit
awkward to learn how to press and not
forget to use them actually whereas
everything else is a bit more in reach
and a little bit more comfortable to use
than these two buttons but you
definitely have to train yourself on
figuring out how to use these in the
most efficient way possible for your
playstyle and for what games you play
and so it is precisely because of the
switches I had to completely rethink my
gaming hand the three fingers that are
normally around the wast area now had to
activate all other key binds and my
thumb instead of hitting spacebar all
the time was in charge of movement with
this analog stick and this is where the
frustration kicked in because my finger
memory for FPS was totally messed up I'm
not used to moving with my thumb because
I've never owned the console so this
actually would be a great transition
from a console towards PC gaming because
it's kind of like combining the two in
terms of ergonomics and customization
and giving you a little bit of that
old-school joystick analog movement and
I literally spend hours reassigning
keybinds for these four fingers that are
normally around the was the area I mean
that was a bit unnatural especially for
fps for example I cannot strafe as fast
as I can with a keyboard because going
left to right requires so much movement
on the joystick and my thumb would
eventually slip even with these textured
rubber pads which are included and
remapping movement to my natural was the
area was really unnatural because of the
switch type perhaps if you're coming
from a console the analog joystick will
feel totally natural to you but not
having that instant reaction between a
and D on the keyboard I mean this is a
lot of movement for for me to do a left
and right strafing which
I just couldn't do with the analog
joystick but it is absolutely much
easier and much faster to do on the
keyboard this also includes going
forward and backwards too so it's not
just strafing left and right it's not
having that like instantaneous control
of my character movement for FPS I will
say that if you want to skip the whole
Anna like joystick navigation
you could also remap Waze to like your
three fingers over here and navigate
that way but for me personally the
travel distance and just not having the
tactility that I'm used to on a
mechanical keyboard is a bit strange to
program was into this area but it is
definitely an option but how about the
games where it is fantastic so basically
any third-person perspective that will
take advantage of that analog stick
witcher 3 is a perfect example so
movement and that game is just much
better with the as our own gamepad and
having spent time on my shortcuts made a
huge difference to enjoy this product
versus being frustrated by it Witcher 3
is fantastic with the controller and now
with the gamepad having that analog
movement gives you just a little bit
more precise navigation with your horse
with your character and reconfiguring
those shortcuts it's all rewarding in
the end right Dead Redemption 2 is
another perfect example where the
joystick lets you do this and generally
more precise movement while utilizing
all 26 buttons after a few hours of
reconfiguring Mikey binds and honestly
that has been the most frustrating and
time-consuming experience I like trying
to see what works and what doesn't in
terms of all these buttons for your main
fingers because the thumb is pretty
occupied with movement but like where do
you map how its spacebar where do you
map out shift ctrl and alt like having
spacebar that I press with my middle
finger it's it kind of bizarre and you
have to retrain physical memory thing
your memory and just like literally
spend time training your hand so that
your traditional was the area and
spacebar mashing is totally different
which is why this thing did not work for
me in FPS games like Call of Duty no way
I just go back to the keyboard
immediately but for other games I can
kind of
myself and force myself to use this
thing where it actually becomes
enjoyable I didn't have to deactivate
some of the keys in the beginning
because I would activate them by
accident again having not trained the
finger memory to let's say not click the
buttons which are kind of like out of
sight where you press press them in and
also these top buttons for your point
and make a middle fingers they're just
kind of so awkward and for me I don't
know it feels unnatural for me to be
lifting my fingers away from the buttons
that are mostly used but it's kind of
still nice to have in case you want to
program something that you don't often
use but you might and you don't want to
like reach for the keyboard shortcut and
the way I would customize the switches
as I would go into the game see what
shortcut does what I'll tab into the as
run software reconfigure those buttons
to the switches and go back into the
game and this way I don't mess up with
any of my keyboard shortcuts because if
I go back to the keyboard all those
things are different and the keypad is
lets you do everything that you wanted
to do without any of the hassle on the
software and lastly the software package
is still in the early stages but I love
the simplicity approach to this
complicated product you click a button
assign the key bind save to a profile
and here's what you can do with the
joystick to either have full analog Xbox
stick keyboard was or them together you
can even calibrate the joystick for
motion sensitivity and direction so
instead of moving forward when you
pressed forward if you move feel more
comfortable changing a direction when
you click up that goes forward you can
do that easily in the software I have
noticed a few instances and games like
Assassin's Creed Odyssey where enabling
the joystick motion disables Mouse
support which is strange I did not
experience that with Witcher 3 so that
is something to keep in mind therefore I
had to disable the joystick and just
keep the was activated when I move the
joystick around otherwise in all other
games Mouse was enabled while also
giving me full joystick control and what
this product made me realize is how I am
never leaving in keyboard behind for FPS
gaming but also how I've been kind of
miss
the totally unique approach to button
mapping is both brilliant and the
drawback and having to like reprogram
your physical memory and all the
software keys and the fact that it's
also 3d printed and so custom made to
you order is well worth the asking price
if you don't feel natural with a
keyboard and one something that is a bit
of a hybrid between like mallow switches
and a full analog joystick control this
thing would definitely be on my
recommendation list as long as you
commit and kind of accept the challenges
that it comes with this kind of
unconventional and almost unnatural way
of clicking your binds but yeah you just
got a train and give it all alright I'm
Dimitri thanks so much for watching
check out this other relevant content
let me know if you are using gamepad or
you know how is this like catering to a
very small niche of users I mean yes it
does and I wouldn't necessarily use this
for like a Productivity one I probably
rather just get something that is like
the Tartarus v2 that is slightly cheaper
and has a bit more conventional way of
finding keys for that one area
alright thanks much for watching and
I'll talk to you next
you